[Music]
if you are a youtuber who create online
video for your channel you may realize
that it is a time-consuming job to find
those royalty-free resources for your
video such as free music and sound
effects
creative common licenses which is also
called cc license is a type of public
copyright licenses that enable free
distribution of copyrighted resources
free of charge
creative commons licenses usually have
cc icon on the left side of the license
tag
the cc licenses all grant some baseline
rights which indicate what you can
achieve
the attribution by right means you can
remix or reuse the resource in your work
as long as you can give credit to the
creator
the usual way to give credit is to
provide some type of attribution in
video or description by putting some
back links to the creator's website
since creative commons version 2.0 this
write will be compulsory and all cc
licenses will include this right
the sharealike sa right means you need
to attach the same license to your video
as the media creator attached to their
work
without this right you can offer
different licenses for your work from
the resource
for example you are using some music
resources which are under cc by license
you want to share your remixed version
but you don't want your work to be used
for commercial projects by others
so if there is no sharealike right
attached an original resource you can
add the non-commercial condition to your
work to change the license to cc by nc
[Music]
the non-commercial writer the same as
the cc by one except that it cannot be
used for commercial work
if you planning to use some music to
create video and publish it to youtube
channel to earn some income you cannot
use the resources under ccnc licenses
the no derivative works and d right
means can you can only share the
resource in its original status
you cannot remix it or put it into your
video
similarly to the non-commercial right if
you are planning to monetize your video
you cannot use resources under the ccnd
licenses
the combination of those rights will
generate different type of creative
commons licenses
the top one is the most open license and
the bottom one is the most strict one
the most open one is the creative
commons zero cc0 license which is same
as the public domain license
it will give you the maximum level of
freedom to use those resources for your
work
the most strict one in this list is the
cc buy-in c d license
you must give credit to the creator to
use the resource in non-commercial
projects and no remix or modification
can be made on it
thanks for watching
if you like the video please hit the
like button or subscribe button for more
interesting topics
[Music]